So some approaches for testing.
Now, there's multiple types of tests
that could apply to any one component or
group of components.
And of course,
people have different approaches.
Your approach might be dictated by
what tooling is available to you.
So kind of use what you can and
find how it fits in, that's totally fine.
And sometimes these lines are blurry.
In my opinion,
just you should use whatever tooling
helps you get the job done, and
it's not as important whether it's
integration testing or end to end testing.
Well, we're using Jest, but
they're kinda more integration tests,
like we're using Storybook for whole
pages, it's whatever gets the job done.
Whatever makes our jobs easier,
makes our data so it's not destructive and
we can have repeatable test cases,
and just make the job easier.
So there's linting, with ESLint,
ESLint-Plugin-JSX -A11y for
React projects.
And that one's pretty standard.
There's also an Axe Linter,
which uses the same engine as Axe core and
the Axe extensions.
Those are nice because you can
check issues early in development.
I think where they're challenging is they
sometimes have some false positives that
you're like, well,
that's not really an issue.
The linter couldn't really tell
whether that was an issue or not, so
you might need to configure your linter so
that it doesn't just turn into
noise that people ignore.
For unit tests, those can be helpful for
internal component APIs and logic.
You wanna kind of isolate these components
from the outside world so they're not
gonna call out to the network, maybe not
test other components in conjunction,
but hey, do what you need to do.
So Jest is a modern tool.
Jest DOM is pretty essential.
And then Testing Library, those
are kind of the trifecta these days for
accessibility unit testing.
They are amazing.
I've tried a lot of accessibility tools
over the years, and I've been paying
very close attention to how the browser
works and what the tool is doing.
We are in the best time for
testing tools we've ever been
with what we have right now.
It's awesome.
For example, if you use Jest in Testing
Library to try and send focus to a div,
like you're gonna write
an accessibility test to do TDD and
capture that failure, it will fail
because that element is not focusable.
That's what we want.
Because we can do true test-driven
development style and get a test that
fails, just like the issue, we capture it,
reproduce it, fix the test.
We can do it for accessibility
a lot easier than we used to.
So check those out.
Component testing is
another way to go about it.
There's Cypress Component Testing.
If you already use Cypress and
you like their API,
that's totally worth checking out.
You can use it for single components or
groups of components,
whereas regular end-to-end Cypress
is more for whole groups of pages.
And then don't sleep on Storybook.
I'm kind of obsessed with it
because it is so awesome.
I joined a new team, they had it set up,
but they kinda weren't using it,
but we also have data that we have
to get from a client, people client,
and it's stuff that is destructive action.
To test that flow, I have to hit the big
button, and then that data's gone, and
we have to get a new data.
That's pretty tough.
So Storybook allows us to mock that data,
have our components not be
behind a VPN either, that's kinda nice,
cuz I didn't have access for
a week or two, but I actually was able
to ship fixes using Storybook only.
It's awesome.
And so now my whole team is like,
we love Storybook.
It's like music to my ears.
[LAUGH] So it can be very helpful.
Even if you're not building a capital D,
capital S design system,
just find ways to make these tools work
for you so that it's easier to test.
Sometimes these things are faster too, you
get hot reload, you get all the latest and
greatest things without some of
the constraints of your full environment,
it's awesome.
So then there's integration testing.
Cypress or WebdriverIO, I mean,
you can kind of bend those tools to
your will for all kinds of purposes.
Integration testing and end-to-end testing
are where they are intended to be used.
And I think integration testing is
when you integrate multiple components
together.
For focus management cases, like say
I have two components that kind of,
you send focus from one to another, that
would be a bit outside of the scope of
a unit test cuz they're
not isolated anymore.
But with integration testing,
maybe with Cypress component testing too,
I could do this.
But I could test to make sure that
focus is caught in the right place,
it moves around the app in the right way.
And then there's end-to-end testing,
which I've heard is kind of
synonymous with integration testing.
There isn't always a clear distinction.
The tools for integration testing
are usually the same for end-to-end.
Lots of organizations call it
something slightly different.
It's basically for whole pages.
And it's nice to have these tools, say,
you have kind of a niche JavaScript
framework, maybe you rolled your own or
something.
You can use Cypress,
and maybe WebdriverIO,
kind of with agnostic frameworks.
So it's a really great tool to sort
bolt on to any frontend tech stack,
because you don't need ESLint plugins for
every single thing.
They might exist, probably not when
you've rolled your own CMS and
JavaScript framework, but
it can be pretty handy.
And then I have some things about
configuring tools, like questions to ask.
How is the UI rendered?
We talked about hybrid apps,
you've got some web views.
Maybe those could be covered in Storybook,
but maybe you need other tooling for
the mobile wrapper.
Can you inject tooling for
accessibility tests into that context?
So Cypress args we're gonna look at,
that tool will handle injecting args
into the web context for
us, and that's pretty cool.
How is your code bundled?
Does it use webpack or
Parcel or something else?
Cuz sometimes those configs are where you
have to look to configure your tooling.
You might have a team that does that.
Smaller companies, you might not.
Can you make changes to the infrastructure
for accessibility tooling, or will you
have to make do with what's already there,
like my story with user event?
I think right now, the project I'm on is
locked into a much older version, and
I'm gonna have to wait.
[LAUGH] Someday, I'm gonna upgrade that.
And just sort of funny,
who do I have to talk to to get
a configuration change around here?
Anyone?
[LAUGH] All right, I'm a nerd.
>> Any experience specifically with
Playwright or any things to look out for
with that?
>> Actually, yeah,
I should put that on there.
So Playwright, there's another one,
too, for snapshot tests.
And I think they can be super handy for
accessibility snapshots.
Visual snapshots can be useful.
I've seen teams disable those cuz they
end up being real blocking to progress.
So yeah, I think there's some
really powerful APIs there,
like being able to test things.
I think you can use Playwright more
effectively to test Chrome extensions too.
So there's some really powerful APIs that
you just don't get with other tools.
So definitely worth checking out.
>> I always thought that testing
library was built with Jest.
Are those two just two
separate testing options?
>> They are technically separate.
I think they really do work well together,
but
testing library has all of
these different flavors now.
If I go to testing library,
I think under here, so Core API,
they have all the school stuff like
ByRole, ByLabelText, ByAltText.
I mean, Kent C.Dodds,
when he writes about testing library,
his gotchas and things to watch out for
are use by role instead of by test ID.
They're really making accessibility
testing central to their recommendations,
which love to see it.
When we go down here to,
where are the, yeah, frameworks.
So we have DOM, React,
Reason, Native, Vue,
all of these flavors that don't
necessarily require Jest, I think.
So-
>> Also, there's a slightly more
recent test runner called VTest that's,
it's very similar to Jest, but
you can kinda take Jest out, plug testing
library in and it basically works.
>> Okay-
>> Love that, so
much easier than it used to be.
So, yeah, probably another
tool that we could add, too.
So under ecosystem, there's all these
other extensions and things as well.
And there's been so
many framework libraries over the years,
like Selenium WebDriver, and Jasmine,
and Mocha, and Sinon, and Enzyme.
Just, we've evolved, right?
I think we're in a golden era of testing,
also.